README.md, before:

# VPN Server Auto-Control Platform

This repository provisions an AWS-based automation stack that runs a WireGuard VPN server in the Tokyo region and exposes a lightweight Web UI for controlled start, stop, and monitoring operations. Terraform creates every AWS resource, while Lambda functions implement the control logic that enforces weekday restrictions and low-traffic shutdowns.

## Solution Highlights
- **EC2 (default `t3a.small`)** launched from the configured AMI (`vpn_ami_id`, default `ami-0f52389a8648b923a`) with a 30 GB encrypted gp3 root volume and no additional user-data overrides.
- **Dedicated networking stack** (new VPC, single public subnet, internet gateway, and route table) plus an ENI with an Elastic IP to keep the VPN’s public address stable across reboots.
- **Managed SSH key pair** generated via Terraform and exposed as sensitive output for immediate download; the EC2 instance uses this key for admin access.
- **Lambda functions (Python 3.12)** handling start, stop, status, and network-monitor workflows.
- **API Gateway (REST)** exposing `/start`, `/stop`, `/status` endpoints locked behind an API key.
- **EventBridge Scheduler** jobs for weekday midnight shutdown and 15-minute traffic monitoring, both timezone-aware for Australia/Sydney.
- **S3 + CloudFront** delivering a static HTML/CSS Web UI that interacts with the API.
- **IAM** scoped to Lambda only—no IAM role is attached to the VPN instance, and Lambda logging permissions are removed to avoid CloudWatch log charges.

## Architecture
```
[S3 + CloudFront]  -->  Web UI
         |
         v
   [API Gateway] ---> [Lambda]
      |    \           | | | |
      |     > start_instance / stop_instance / check_status / monitor_traffic
      v
[Amazon EventBridge Scheduler]  (scheduled stop + traffic checks)
      |
      v
[EC2 WireGuard VPN]
```

## Prerequisites
- Terraform ≥ 1.5.x
- AWS CLI configured with credentials that can create IAM, EC2, Lambda, API Gateway, CloudFront, and S3 resources in `ap-northeast-1`.
- Optional: `direnv` or shell tooling to export Terraform variables.

## Repository Layout
```
terraform/            # Terraform configuration for the entire stack
lambda_functions/     # Python source for Lambda handlers
web/                  # Static assets for the Web UI served via CloudFront
```

## Deployment Steps
1. **Review security defaults**
   - Update `terraform/network.tf` to restrict SSH and WireGuard ingress to trusted IP ranges.
   - Adjust `timezone_name`, `vpn_instance_type`, `public_subnet_cidr`, or `vpn_private_ip` variables if you need a different layout. Ensure the instance type matches the AMI architecture.

2. **Initialize Terraform**
   ```bash
   cd terraform
   terraform init
   ```

3. **Inspect the plan**
   ```bash
   terraform plan \
     -var "project_name=vpn-auto-control" \
     -var "web_bucket_name=<optional-custom-bucket>"
   ```

4. **Apply the configuration**
   ```bash
   terraform apply
   ```
   Confirm the run and wait until all resources finish provisioning. The outputs include the API invoke URL, the CloudFront domain, and the EC2 instance ID.

5. **Retrieve the API key value**
   Terraform outputs the API key ID, not the actual secret value. To fetch it:
   ```bash
   aws apigateway get-api-key \
     --api-key <api_key_id_from_outputs> \
     --include-value
   ```

6. **Download the SSH private key**
   ```bash
   terraform output --raw ssh_private_key_pem > ../vpn-server-tokyo-key.pem
   chmod 600 ../vpn-server-tokyo-key.pem
   ```

7. **Verify WireGuard**
   - SSH into the EC2 instance using the Elastic IP output and complete any WireGuard peer configuration.
   - Confirm the existing WireGuard setup from your AMI works as expected.

## Web UI Configuration
1. Browse to the CloudFront domain from the Terraform output.
2. If it is a weekday between 00:00 and 13:00 Australia/Sydney, you will be shown `unavailable.html`, which explains the downtime and automatically refreshes once access returns.
3. Outside the restricted window (including all weekend hours), `index.html` displays Start/Stop/Status buttons. On the first click the page prompts for:
   - **API base URL** (for example, `https://<api-id>.execute-api.ap-northeast-1.amazonaws.com/prod`).
   - **API key** copied from API Gateway.
4. After the prompts, the request runs and the response appears in plain text (e.g., “Server already running.” or “VPN warming up…”). Details are saved to `localStorage`; use **Reset saved API details** to reconfigure.

## Lambda Behavior Summary
- **start_instance**: Enforces the Australia/Sydney weekday restriction (no manual starts between 00:00–13:00 local time). Returns the resulting instance state.
- **stop_instance**: Stops the instance when invoked via API or the scheduled weekday midnight rule. Idempotent when the instance is already stopping or stopped.
- **check_status**: Reports instance state, IPs, and the latest EC2 system/instance status checks, marking the VPN as available only after both checks pass, with timestamps in Australia/Sydney time.
- **monitor_traffic**: Runs every 15 minutes via EventBridge Scheduler, evaluates combined `NetworkIn`/`NetworkOut` for the trailing 1.5 hours, and stops the instance if sustained traffic ≤ 1 MB/hour.

## Cleanup
To remove all resources, run:
```bash
cd terraform
terraform destroy
```
Note that the S3 bucket is emptying automatically (`force_destroy = true`), but you should still confirm the bucket is no longer needed.

## Next Steps & Hardening Ideas
- Integrate Amazon Cognito or IAM authorizers for stronger authentication instead of API keys.
- Parameterize allowed ingress CIDR blocks and WireGuard settings.
- Add notifications (e.g., Amazon SNS) when automated stops occur.
- Introduce automated tests for the Lambda handlers (e.g., using `pytest` with moto).

Commit message:

add automation for register new user / modify design

README.md, after:

# VPN Server Auto-Control Platform

This repository provisions an AWS-based automation stack that runs a WireGuard VPN server in the Tokyo region and exposes a lightweight Web UI for controlled start/status operations, peer registration, and automated monitoring. Terraform creates every AWS resource, while Lambda functions implement the control logic that enforces weekday restrictions and low-traffic shutdowns.

## Solution Highlights
- **EC2 (default `t3a.small`)** launched from the configured AMI (`vpn_ami_id`, default `ami-0f52389a8648b923a`) with a 30 GB encrypted gp3 root volume and no additional user-data overrides.
- **Dedicated networking stack** (new VPC, single public subnet, internet gateway, and route table) plus an ENI with an Elastic IP to keep the VPN’s public address stable across reboots.
- **Managed SSH key pair** generated via Terraform and exposed as sensitive output for immediate download; the EC2 instance uses this key for admin access.
- **Lambda functions (Python 3.12)** handling start, stop, status, peer-registration, and network-monitor workflows.
- **API Gateway (REST)** exposing `/start`, `/status`, `/register`, and (optionally) `/stop` endpoints locked behind an API key.
- **EventBridge Scheduler** jobs for weekday midnight shutdown and 15-minute traffic monitoring, both timezone-aware for Australia/Sydney.
- **S3 + CloudFront** delivering a static HTML/CSS Web UI that interacts with the API.
- **Admin console** served at `admin.html` for trusted operators who need to bypass the maintenance window and access the full control surface.
- **IAM** kept minimal: Lambda receives only the permissions required for EC2 control, monitoring, and Systems Manager commands, while the VPN instance is attached to an `AmazonSSMManagedInstanceCore` profile for remote peer management.

## Architecture
```
[S3 + CloudFront]  -->  Web UI
         |
         v
   [API Gateway] ---> [Lambda]
      |    \           | | | |
   |     > start_instance / stop_instance / check_status / register_peer / monitor_traffic
      v
[Amazon EventBridge Scheduler]  (scheduled stop + traffic checks)
      |
      v
[EC2 WireGuard VPN]
```

## Prerequisites
- Terraform ≥ 1.5.x
- AWS CLI configured with credentials that can create IAM, EC2, Lambda, API Gateway, CloudFront, and S3 resources in `ap-northeast-1`.
- Optional: `direnv` or shell tooling to export Terraform variables.

## Repository Layout
```
terraform/            # Terraform configuration for the entire stack
lambda_functions/     # Python source for Lambda handlers
web/                  # Static assets for the Web UI served via CloudFront
```

## Deployment Steps
1. **Review security defaults**
   - Update `terraform/network.tf` to restrict SSH and WireGuard ingress to trusted IP ranges.
   - Adjust `timezone_name`, `vpn_instance_type`, `public_subnet_cidr`, or `vpn_private_ip` variables if you need a different layout. Ensure the instance type matches the AMI architecture.
   - Ensure `wireguard_client_subnet` and `wireguard_server_address` reflect the addressing used in `/etc/wireguard/wg0.conf`; the peer registration Lambda relies on these values when allocating client IPs.
   - Confirm the selected AMI includes the AWS Systems Manager Agent (SSM Agent). Amazon Linux 2/2023 images ship with it enabled by default.
   - Set `admin_basic_auth_username` and `admin_basic_auth_password` to non-default values before deploying to production; these control the CloudFront basic-auth gate for `admin.html`.

2. **Initialize Terraform**
   ```bash
   cd terraform
   terraform init
   ```

3. **Inspect the plan**
   ```bash
   terraform plan \
     -var "project_name=vpn-auto-control" \
     -var "web_bucket_name=<optional-custom-bucket>"
   ```

4. **Apply the configuration**
   ```bash
   terraform apply
   ```
   Confirm the run and wait until all resources finish provisioning. The outputs include the API invoke URL, the CloudFront domain, and the EC2 instance ID.

5. **Retrieve the API key value**
   Terraform outputs the API key ID, not the actual secret value. To fetch it:
   ```bash
   aws apigateway get-api-key \
     --api-key <api_key_id_from_outputs> \
     --include-value
   ```

6. **Download the SSH private key**
   ```bash
   terraform output --raw ssh_private_key_pem > ../vpn-server-tokyo-key.pem
   chmod 600 ../vpn-server-tokyo-key.pem
   ```

7. **Verify WireGuard**
   - SSH into the EC2 instance using the Elastic IP output and complete any WireGuard peer configuration.
   - Confirm the existing WireGuard setup from your AMI works as expected.

## Web UI Configuration
1. Browse to the CloudFront domain from the Terraform output.
2. If it is a weekday between 00:00 and 13:00 Australia/Sydney, you will be shown `unavailable.html`, which explains the downtime and automatically refreshes once access returns.
3. Outside the restricted window (including all weekend hours), `index.html` displays Start/Status buttons and a peer registration form. On the first click the page prompts for:
   - **API base URL** (for example, `https://<api-id>.execute-api.ap-northeast-1.amazonaws.com/prod`).
   - **API key** copied from API Gateway.
4. After the prompts, the request runs and the response appears in plain text (e.g., “Server already running.” or “VPN warming up…”). Peer registrations return the assigned `/32` IP and generated preshared key. Details are saved to `localStorage`; use **Reset saved API details** to reconfigure.
5. For each new WireGuard client, paste its public key into the registration form. The UI will display the allocated IP address and preshared key—copy them into the client configuration.
6. Administrators can browse to `<cloudfront-domain>/admin.html` to bypass the maintenance window, access the manual stop action, and register peers even during restricted hours. You will be prompted for the HTTP Basic credentials configured via `admin_basic_auth_username`/`admin_basic_auth_password`; share them (and the admin API key) only with trusted operators.

## Lambda Behavior Summary
- **start_instance**: Enforces the Australia/Sydney weekday restriction (no manual starts between 00:00–13:00 local time). Returns the resulting instance state.
- **stop_instance**: Stops the instance when invoked via API or the scheduled weekday midnight rule. Idempotent when the instance is already stopping or stopped.
- **check_status**: Reports instance state, IPs, and the latest EC2 system/instance status checks, marking the VPN as available only after both checks pass, with timestamps in Australia/Sydney time.
- **register_peer**: Accepts a WireGuard public key, allocates the next free `/32` in the configured client CIDR, updates `/etc/wireguard/wg0.conf` through AWS Systems Manager, and returns the assigned IP plus a generated preshared key.
- **monitor_traffic**: Runs every 15 minutes via EventBridge Scheduler, evaluates combined `NetworkIn`/`NetworkOut` for the trailing 1.5 hours, and stops the instance if sustained traffic ≤ 1 MB/hour.

## Cleanup
To remove all resources, run:
```bash
cd terraform
terraform destroy
```
Note that the S3 bucket is emptying automatically (`force_destroy = true`), but you should still confirm the bucket is no longer needed.

## Next Steps & Hardening Ideas
- Integrate Amazon Cognito or IAM authorizers for stronger authentication instead of API keys.
- Parameterize allowed ingress CIDR blocks and WireGuard settings.
- Add notifications (e.g., Amazon SNS) when automated stops occur.
- Introduce automated tests for the Lambda handlers (e.g., using `pytest` with moto).
